The President: Hi everybody.
Seven years ago, the
American auto industry was
on the brink of collapse.
Plants were closing.
Hundreds of thousands of
workers were getting laid
off from jobs that had
been their ticket to a
middle-class life.
And as the pain spread
across the country,
another one million
Americans would have lost
their jobs in the middle of
the worst economic crisis of
our lifetimes.
Some said it was too late
to turn things around.
But I refused to turn my
back on so many of the
workers that I'd met.
Instead, I placed my
bet on American workers.
I placed my bet on
American manufacturing.
In exchange for help, we
demanded responsibility.
We said the auto industry
would have to truly change,
not just pretend
that it did.
We got labor and management
to settle their differences.
We got the industry to
retool and restructure.
Everyone had some
skin in the game.
Our plan wasn't popular.
Critics said it was
a "road to socialism,
" or a "disaster"
waiting to happen.
But I'd make that bet
again any day of the week.
Because today, the American
auto industry is back.
Since our plan
went into effect,
our automakers have added
more than 640,000 new jobs.
We've cut the Detroit-area
unemployment rate by more
than half.
The Big Three automakers
are raising wages.
Seven years ago, auto
sales hit a 27-year low.
Last year, they hit
an all-time high.
Later this month, I'll visit
the Detroit Auto Show to see
this progress firsthand.
Because I believe that every
American should be proud of
what our most iconic
industry has done.
It's not unlike what America
overall has done these past
seven years.
Our businesses are now on
a 70-month streak of job
creation, with more than
14 million new jobs in all.
We've revamped our schools
and the way we pay for college.
We've made historic
investments in clean energy
and put ourselves on a path
to a low-carbon future.
We've brought more than 17
million Americans into our
health care system, seen
health care prices grow at
the lowest rate
in fifty years,
and covered more than 90
percent of our people for
the very first time.
We've even cut our deficits
by nearly 75 percent
in the process.
The point is America
can do anything.
Even in times of great
challenge and change,
our future is
entirely up to us.
That's been on my mind while
I'm writing my final State
of the Union Address.
And on Tuesday, I'm going
to talk about the choices we
have to make to set this
country firmly on an even
better, brighter course
for decades to come.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.